## **Slot Machine Casino Game.**

- [Key Features](#key-features)
- [Getting Started](#getting-started)
- [Services](#services)
    - [Card Service](#card-service)
    - [Transaction Service](#transaction-service)
    - [User Service](#user-service)
- [Example](#example)
- [Unit Tests](#unit-tests)

## **Key Features**

1. Guests do not have access to services.
2. Registered users have their own unique customerId generated with which they can transact with other users.
3. Registered users can add cards (it is a mocking service, not a real credit card) - they are being automatically generated.
4. Assuming the cards are real and always with positive balances - users can deposit funds to their user/customer accounts.
5. If user has enough balance on the account, they could transfer funds to another user/customer accounts.
6. User view all related transactions separated in two tables:
    - received transactions;
    - sent transactions;
7. Users can not transfer zero or negative amounts - both for deposits and transactions.
8. User authentication through json web token (jwt) which is being signed and sent after user login;

## Getting Started
To get started with this project, follow these steps:

1. Clone the repository.
2. Install dependencies with npm install.
3. Open the terminal in src/server directory.
4. Type npm run start in the terminal and hit enter.
5. Visit `http://localhost:3000/`.


## Services

There are 3 main services with their own functionalities:

### Card Service 

`cardService.js` responsible for:
- card creation; - [Create Card](#create-card);
- card deletion - [Delete Card](#delete-card);
- getting all cards related to certain user - [Get User Cards](#get-user-cards);

cardService utilizes 2 private functions:

`generateCardNumber` - creating a random card number for the currently created card;
`createExpirationDate` - creating an expiration date for the currently created card;

## Create Card

It is an async function which accepts 3 parameters:

```javascript
    createCard(userId, schemaProvider, cardholder);
```

They are being supplied by the front-end's form.

The function creates a DB document and returns it: 
    
```javascript

    return await Card.create({

        owner_id: userId,
        cardholder: cardholder,
        card_number: cardNumber,
        expiration: expDate
    });
```
`card_number` and `expiration` properties are being generated by `generateCardNumber` and `createExpirationDate`;

### Delete Card

It is an async function which accepts 2 parameters:

```javascript
 deleteCard(userId, cardId)
```

If database fails to find card which is matching both filters it throws an error:

```javascript

const result = await Card.deleteOne({ _id: cardId, owner_id: userId });

    if (result.deletedCount == 0) {

        throw new MongooseError('You are not allowed to delete this card!');
    }
```
Therefore this is a database guard ensuring that only cards belonging to their users will be deleted.

After deleting the card from the Cards database, we have to delete it from User.cards[] array:

```javascript

await User.findByIdAndUpdate({ _id: userId }, { $pull: { cards: { _id: cardId } } });

```

**N.B! This service must be implemented as a DB transaction in order to achieve atomicity , but I failed to configure the mongoDB to work with transactions!**

### Get User Cards

It is a function which returns an array of card documents:

```javascript

exports.getUserCards = (userId) => {

    return Card.find({ owner_id: userId }).lean();
}
```

### Transaction Service 

 `transactionService.js` responsible for:
- Depositing funds- [Deposit Funds](#deposit-funds);
- Getting all deposits by userId - [Get Deposits](#get-deposits);
- Transfering funds between customer accounts - [Funds Transfer](#funds-transfer);
- Getting user transactions - [Get Transactions](#get-transactions);
    
`transactionService` utilizes 1 private function:

`formatDate` - formating card's expiration date for the frontend.


## Deposit Funds

This fnction accepts 4 parameters:

```javascript

  depositFunds (userId, amount, card_number, card_id);

```
 
 It throws an error if the deposited amount is less or equal to zero.


## Get Deposits

Getting all deposits related to cerain userId:

```javascript
    
    exports.getDeposits = async (userId) => {

    return await Deposit.find({ userId: userId });
    }

```

## Funds Transfer

Responsible for transfering the funds between user's accounts:

```javascript
exports.transferFunds = async (sender, receiver, amount) => {

    //...
}
```
- It throws an error if amount is zero or negative;
- It throws an error if the receiver customerId is not found;
- It throws an error if the user is sending funds to themselves, thus sender == receiver;
- It throws an error if the transfer amount is larger than user's available account balance;

After all conditional checks have been passed, we get get both documents - sender and receiver from the database and update their account balances respectively.
Then a transaction document is being created/saved to the database:

```javascript

     return await Transaction.create({ tid, sender, receiver, amount, transaction_date });

```

 ## Get Transactions

It is a function that returns an object with two arrays: One for the `sent` transactions and one for the `received` transactions:

```javascript

exports.getUserTransactions = async (customerId) => {

    return {
        sent: (await Transaction.find({ sender: customerId }).lean()).map(formatDate),
        received: (await Transaction.find({ receiver: customerId }).lean()).map(formatDate)
    };
}
```

### User Service
**`userService.js` responsible for:**
- Creating new user- [Create User](#create-user);
- Getting user data/details - [Get User Data](#get-user-data);
- Login - [Login](#login);
- Adding cards to User's array - [Add Card](#add-card);
    
## Create User 

It is a function that accepts one parameter - it is a formData object generated by the user registration form on the frontend:

```javascript

    exports.createUser = async (data) => {

    return await User.create(data);
    
    }

```

## Get User Data

This service accepts a userId and returns an object with User's detail as a js object:

```javascript

    exports.getUserData = async (userId) => {

    return await User.findOne({_id: userId}).lean();

    }
```

## Login

This service is responsible for logging in - it accepts an email and password:

```javascript

    exports.login = async (email, password) => {

        //...
    }
```
- It validates if user exists;
- It validates if user has provided a valid password;
- If all conditional checks are passed the function signs a json web token and returns it:

```javascript

    const token = await jwt.sign({ userId: user._id, first_name: user.first_name, last_name: user.last_name, customerId: user.customerId }, jwtSecret, { expiresIn: '1h' });

    return token;

```

## Add Card

This service validates if user has less than 5 cards and if they don't - a `createCard` service is being called, which creates a new card.
Then this card is being pushed to User's cards array:

```javascript

exports.addCard = async (userId, schemaProvider, cardholder) => {
    
    const user = await User.findOne({ _id: userId });

    if (user.cards.length >= 5) {
        throw new MongooseError('The card limit of 5 has been reached!');
    }

    const card = await createCard(userId, schemaProvider, cardholder);
    user.cards.push(card);
    await user.save();
    return card._id;
}

```

